This time the bat didn’t have any wings at all and fell with a plop like a dead mouse.
And lo the bat did materialize and it did fly up at once toward the ceiliing, healthy and glowing a bright green. Hermione nodded in satisfaction. “Okay, what next?” There was a long pause.
“Seriously? You seriously have to say Oogely boogely with the duration of the oo, eh, and ee sounds having a ratio of 3 to 1 to 2, or the bat won’t glow? Why? Why? For the love of all that is sacred, why? Harry had thought about the nature of magic for a while, and then
designed a series of experiments based on the premise that virtually everything wizards believed about magic was wrong.
You couldn’t really need to say ‘Wingardium Leviosa’ in exactly the right way in order to levitate something, because, come on, ‘Wingardium Leviosa’? The universe was going to check that you said ‘Wingardium Leviosa’ in exactly the right way and otherwise it wouldn’t make the quill float?
No. Obviously no, once you thought about it seriously. Someone, quite possibly an actual preschool child, but at any rate some English-speaking magic-user, who thought that ‘Wingardium Leviosa’ sounded all flappy and floaty, had originally spoken those words while casting the spell for the first time. And then told everyone else it was necessary.
But (Harry had reasoned) it didn’t have to be that way, it wasn’t built into the universe, it was built into you.
There was an old story passed down among scientists, a cautionary tale, the story of Blondlot and the N-Rays.
Harry carefully looped one circle of glittering diamond over the thick metal hook at the top of the rig, then attached a thick metal hanger to the bottom ring, and then started attaching weights to the hanger.
(Harry had asked the Weasley twins to Transfigure the apparatus for him, and the Weasley twins had given him an incredulous look, like they couldn’t figure out what sort of prank he could possibly want that for, but they hadn’t asked any questions. And their Transfigurations, according to them, lasted for around three hours, so Harry and Hermione still had a while left.)
“One hundred kilograms,” Harry said about a minute later. “I don’t think a steel thread this thin would hold that. It should go up much higher, but that’s all the weight I’ve got.”
There was a further silence. Harry straightened up, and went back to their table, and sat down in his chair, and ceremoniously made a check mark next to ‘Buckytubes’.
 “There,” Harry said. “That one worked.” “But it’s not really useful, Harry, is it?” Hermione said from where she was sitting with her head resting in her hands. “I mean, even if we gave it to a scientist they couldn’t learn how to make lots of buckytubes from studying ours.”
“They might be able to learn something,” Harry said. “Hermione, look at it, that little tiny thread holding up all that weight, we just made some- thing that no Muggle laboratory could make—”
“But any other witch could make it,” Hermione said. Her exhaustion was coming into her voice, now. “Harry, I don’t think this is working out.”
“You mean our relationship?” Harry said. “Great! Let’s break up.” That got a slight grin out of her. “I mean our research.” “Oh, Hermione, how could you?”
“You’re sweet when you’re mean,” she said. “But Harry, this is nuts, I’m twelve, you’re eleven, it’s silly to think we’re going to discover anything that no-one’s ever figured out before.”
The wizarding world was tiny, they didn’t think like scientists, they didn’t know science, they didn’t question what they’d grown up with, they hadn’t put protective shells on their time machines, they played Quid- ditch, all of magical Britain was smaller than a small Muggle city, the greatest wizarding school only educated up to the age of seventeen, silly wasn’t challenging that at eleven, silly was assuming wizards knew what they were doing and had already exhausted all the low-hanging fruit a scientific polymath would see.
Step One had been to make a list of every magical constraint Harry could remember, all the things you supposedly couldn’t do. Step Two, mark the constraints that seemed to make the least sense from a scientific perspective.
Step Three, prioritize constraints that a wizard would be unlikely to question if they didn’t know science.
“Quantum mechanics wasn’t enough,” Harry said. “I had to go all the way down to timeless physics before it took. Had to see the wand as en- forcing a relation between separate past and future realities, instead of changing anything over time—but I did it, Hermione, I saw past the illu- sion of objects, and I bet there’s not a single other wizard in the world who could have.
 Even if some Muggle-born knew about timeless formula- tions of quantum mechanics, it would just be a weird belief about strange distant quantum stuff, they wouldn’t see that it was reality, accept that the world they knew was just a hallucination. I Transfigured part of the eraser without changing the whole thing.”
